
===== PAGE 1 =====
494
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 73, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
Efficient Adjoint-Based Shape Optimization Method
for the Inverse Design of Microwave Components
Shengwei Ji , Siteng HuYan , Liuge Du , Xiao Xu , and Jia Zhao
Abstract— An adjoint-based shape optimization approach for
the inverse design of microwave components is proposed. The
proposed approach is a pure postprocessing process that only
needs the field solutions. It is independent on numerical methods,
system matrix, and mesh information, thus can be used in
conjunction with mainstream Maxwell solvers currently available
on the market, which makes it an efficient, convenient, and user-
friendly method. To be applicable to the shape optimization of
complex cases, this approach can calculate shape derivatives at
all points in design region with only one simulation by a rigorous
analytical solution, which makes it have arbitrarily many degrees
of freedom (DoFs) while the reported similar approaches can
only deal with several variables. Flexible parameters’ updating
is achieved by the level set method. Owing to the speed of
calculating shape derivatives at boundary points within adjoint
method, coupled with the accurate updating of shape by gradient
descent and level set method, our approach normally requires
several or dozens of iterations even in cases with numerous DoFs.
The developed approach is used to optimize a high-directivity
directional coupler and an unequal Wilkinson power divider to
verify its validity and robustness.
Index Terms— Adjoint method, degree of freedom (DoF),
inverse design, shape derivative, shape optimization.
I. INTRODUCTION
G
UIDED-WAVE devices, such as coupler and power
divider, and spatial electromagnetic (EM) devices, such
as antenna and spatial filter, together constitute the transmis-
sion path of EM waves in microwave systems for wireless
communication and electronic countermeasures. The per-
formance of these devices that is directly related to the
manipulation of EM waves is determined by their structures,
especially the shape of their metal elements. Therefore, some
conventional approaches, such as the direct design method by
manually changing shapes guided by engineering insight and
equivalent circuit model, have been adopted to perform shape
optimization [1], [2], [3], [4]. However, these methods not
Manuscript received 1 February 2024; revised 30 March 2024, 24 May
2024, and 25 June 2024; accepted 27 June 2024. Date of publication 9 July
2024; date of current version 7 January 2025. This work was supported in
part by the National Key Research and Development Program of China under
Grant 2021YFB2800203, in part by the National Natural Science Foundation
of China under Grant 61801267, and in part by the Young Scholars Program
of Shandong University. (Corresponding author: Liuge Du.)
Shengwei Ji, Liuge Du, Xiao Xu, and Jia Zhao are with the School of
Information Science and Engineering, Shandong University, Qingdao 266237,
China (e-mail: lgdu@sdu.edu.cn).
Siteng HuYan is with the Key Laboratory of Laser and Infrared System,
Shandong University, Qingdao 266237, China.
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TMTT.2024.3421558.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TMTT.2024.3421558
only rely heavily on intuition and experience of designers but
also explore only a small fraction of the available shapes.
In addition, they are time-consuming and computationally
intensive. More importantly, these methods can hardly achieve
shape optimization fine enough to meet the increasingly
precise manipulation of EM waves in the above-mentioned
systems [5], [6], [7], [8].
For
these
reasons,
a
variety
of
methodologies
have
been developed in pursuit of efficient, exhaustive, and fine
shape optimization of microwave components. Generally,
these methodologies can be broadly classified into two
types, namely, stochastic optimization and deterministic opti-
mization. Stochastic optimization, such as particle swarm
optimization, genetic optimization, or other hybrid methods
tailored for specific problems, has the global searching ability
endowed by the inherent randomness of search direction [9],
[10], [11]. And thus, this kind of method prevails in find-
ing the global optimal solutions. However, when stochastic
method is applied for shape optimization of complex struc-
tures with numerous degrees of freedom (DoFs), the inherent
randomness of search direction leads to high computational
cost generated by a bulk of repeated full-wave simulations,
which will prevent the realization of finding all possible
designs. As the other category of shape optimization, deter-
ministic optimization, just as the name implies, has definite
search directions, thereby causing much reduction in time cost
and correspondingly enhancing design efficiency [12], [13],
[14], [15]. Thereinto, most of the deterministic optimization
is gradient-based.
As one of gradient-based methods, adjoint method can
obtain gradient information in the entire design domain
through one iteration and thus is considered to be highly
efficient. On this account, adjoint method that was origi-
nally used for optimization of hydrodynamics and mechanical
structures has been introduced into EM field for shape opti-
mization of EM components in recent years [16], [17], [18].
Specifically, the adjoint method and EM numerical meth-
ods, such as finite-element method and finite difference time
domain method, are jointly used for shape optimization of
EM components [19], [20]. It is noted that this combined
approach needs to use the intermediate variables, i.e., system
matrix and detail information of mesh generation provided
by simulation programs. As is known, Maxwell equations’
solving can be realized by customized simulation programs or
commercial software packages. However, to the best of our
knowledge, the current commercial EM software is unable
to offer intermediate variables. It means that the combined
0018-9480 © 2024 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 2 =====
JI et al.: EFFICIENT ADJOINT-BASED SHAPE OPTIMIZATION METHOD FOR INVERSE DESIGN
495
approach is not easily compatible with commercial software
package, which makes it inconvenient and unfriendly [21],
[22], [23].
Based on the above drawbacks, adjoint EM optimization
independent on numerical methods is relatively more valuable.
To enable commercial EM software packages to be used in
conjunction with adjoint method, great efforts have been made.
However, the developed approaches presented in the relevant
articles [24], [25], [26] can only handle a single or several
design DoF, such as moving a certain metal structural plane
by optimization. Despite these drawbacks, the method is still
more efficient than traditional methods mentioned above and
it has been preliminarily implemented in commercial soft-
ware [27], [28], [29]. There are some advanced strategies for
dielectric optical device design with high DoF and some are
integrated into optimization packages of commercial solvers
due to the ease of obtaining the derivative of permittivity.
For instance, Lumopt optimization package developed by
Berkeley group is combined with commercial EM software
Lumerical, and Stanford group has developed an automated
photonic inverse design framework named Stanford Photonic
INverse design Software (SPINS). Unfortunately, these inte-
grated approaches developed for the field of optical waveguide
devices are only applicable for optimizing dielectric topology
or shape structures and powerless to deal with metal-based
microwave components [15], [30], [31], [32].
In this article, we present a shape optimization approach
for the inverse design of metal-based microwave components.
It is independent of any specific numerical method, serving
as a pure postprocessing procedure compatible with various
commercial Maxwell solvers such as HFSS, CST Microwave
Studio, and FEKO. This approach calculates shape derivatives
at all the points in space, enabling high DoF in optimizing
intricate structures while necessitating only one simulation per
iteration.
The remainder of this article is organized as follows.
Section II provides a brief description of the developed
approach in this work and a detailed derivation of the
related formulas. Section III shows two examples of designing
microwave components adopting the proposed approach in
this work. The validity of the design is demonstrated by a
good agreement between the designed performance and the
measured results. Finally, a conclusion is given in Section IV.
II. PRESENTATION OF THE PROPOSED
APPROACH IN THIS WORK
In general, the inverse design of EM devices is to optimize
the shape of the initial structures provided using a certain
method, so that the EM performance of the final structures
with optimized shape can meet the design objectives.
As is known, commercial EM software packages are inca-
pable of providing system matrix and detail information
of mesh generation, which is considerably indispensable
for shape optimization of complex cases in the combined
approaches jointly using adjoint method and customized
simulation programs. Another way, as mentioned in the intro-
duction, integrating adjoint method into EM software packages
in [24], [25], [26] can only handle dimension optimization
with low DoF. This is because they only have dimension
derivatives for structural surfaces and have not derived shape
derivatives for each structural point. Hence, the proposed
approach in this work needs another means to realize shape
optimization in the absence of system matrix and detail
information of mesh generation. And then the only means is
to find a solution based on adjoint method itself. The certain
method, i.e., the developed approach in this work, integrates
adjoint method into commercial EM software packages while
having the powerful capability of optimizing complex cases
with high DoF, which is the most striking feature of this
approach.
In
this
part,
we
elaborate
adjoint
method
used
in
our developed approach and the key procedures involved
in Section II-A. And then the derivation of shape deriva-
tive that is used for shape optimization is focused on
in Section II-B.
Finally,
level
set
geometric
representa-
tion that is applied to parameters’ updating is introduced
in Section II-C.
A. Principle of Adjoint Method for Electromagnetic Problems
At the beginning of this section, three reasonable assump-
tions are made for simplicity. First, in electromagnetic fields,
changes in the electric field are accompanied by changes in the
magnetic field. Therefore, the wave equation for the electric
field is chosen for the derivation, and the electric field is
selected as intermediate variable in the derivation process.
Second, the metal considered in this work is perfect electrical
conductor (PEC). Finally, the dielectric involved in this work
is isotropic.
EM optimization design, by its very nature, is to find
the optimal material distribution or geometry parameters in
design region so that the maximum or minimum output can be
reached at some point for a given input. In mathematical term,
the EM design problem with general objective function f can
be expressed as
Minimax
f

E(pi)

(1)
Subject to
 ∇× ∇× −ω2ϵµ

E = −jωµJ
(2)
where (1) is a composite function that maps the relationship
between the objective function f and the design parameter
pi(i = 1, . . . , n), E is the electric field, ω is the angular
frequency, ϵ is the permitivity, µ is the permeability, and J is
the current density.
As mentioned in the introduction, adjoint method is very
efficient for solving the problem of EM optimization. In this
method, adjoint simulation is the key and featuring step, which
can combine forward simulation to find the optimal parameters
in the design region. The operation principle is explained
as follows. Since the frequency-domain wave equation is an
implicit function of parameter pi, according to the chain
rule with the Wirtinger derivatives, the gradient of f can be
expressed as
d f
dpi
= ∂f
∂E
dE
dpi
+ ∂f
∂E∗
dE∗
dpi
(3)
where ∗means the conjugation of electric field, and Re rep-
resents the real part. Since
f
is a real-valued function,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 3 =====
496
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 73, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
the Wirtinger derivatives are complex conjugates of each other
∂f
∂E =
 ∂f
∂E∗
∗
.
(4)
Then (3) can be written as
d f
dpi
= 2Re
 ∂f
∂E
dE
dpi

.
(5)
From the wave function (2), the derivative of the electric
field with respect to a single design variable pi is
∂
 ∇×∇×−ω2ϵµ

∂pi
E +
 ∇×∇×−ω2ϵµ
 ∂E
∂pi
= −jωµ ∂J
∂pi
.
(6)
Transform the position of the term in (6) to obtain
∂E
∂pi
=
 ∇× ∇× −ω2ϵµ
−1
×
"
−jωµ ∂J
∂pi
−∂
 ∇× ∇× −ω2ϵµ

∂pi
E
#
.
(7)
Note that the source term −jωµJ in (2) is independent of
the parameter pi, and hence the gradient of f can be written as
d f
dpi
= 2Re
 ∂f
∂E
 ∇× ∇× −ω2ϵµ
−1
−d
 ∇× ∇× −ω2ϵµ

dpi
E
#
.
(8)
The middle item in (8) has the relationship of
∂f
∂E
 ∇× ∇× −ω2ϵµ
−1 =
 ∇× ∇× −ω2ϵµ
−T  ∂f
∂E
T
(9)
where the superscript T means transpose of matrices. The
adjoint electric field Ead generated by the adjoint process is
defined as
Ead =
 ∇× ∇× −ω2ϵµ
−T  ∂f
∂E
T
.
(10)
Then we can get the forward process form expressed as
 ∇× ∇× −ω2ϵµ

E = −jωµJ
(11)
that satisfies the following two curl equations:
∇× E = −jωµH
(12)
∇× H = jωϵE
(13)
and adjoint process form written as
 ∇× ∇× −ω2ϵµ
T Ead =
 ∂f
∂E
T
(14)
that satisfies the following two curl equations:
∇× Ead = −jωµHad
(15)
∇× Had = jωϵEad
(16)
where Had represents the adjoint magnetic field generated by
the adjoint process.
Fig. 1.
Schematic of adjoint method for EM optimization problem and field
solutions required for calculating parameter increments.
Equation (14) means that using ∂f /∂E as a source, adjoint
simulation generates an electric field Ead based on the same
structure as in the forward simulation. On the other hand,
(11)–(16) indicate that the gradient in all the design regions
can be calculated after both the forward simulation and
adjoint simulation are performed. Fig. 1 illustrates the forward
and adjoint process in adjoint method for EM optimization.
It should be noted that this section only explains the feasibility
of the adjoint method, and the adjoint process included cannot
be directly calculated. The further processing and specific
details will be discussed in Section II-B.
B. Shape Derivative in Microwave Structure Optimization
In this section, the derivation process of shape derivative for
shape optimization of microwave devices will be presented.
In many researches concerning optimization of passive
microwave devices, the aim is to obtain optimum trans-
mission, reflection, absorption, radiation pattern, and so on
of microwave structures. Since we will verify our method
with specific devices later on, here we take an optimization
objective in practical situations as an example for deriva-
tion. To distinguish from the general objective function f
in Section II, figure-of-merit (FoM) is used to represent the
specific optimization objective, which can be expressed by the
Poynting vectors as
FoM =
˜  E × hback
· ds
Pin
(17)
Pin =
¨  Ein × h

· ds
(18)
ds = an · ds
(19)
where E is the electric field resulting from the forward
simulation, Ein is the incident field at the port, hback and h
are the magnetic port modal vectors, Pin is the incident wave,
and an is the port unit normal vector.
The derivative of FoM with respect to the design parame-
ter is
dFoM
dpi
= 2Re
˜  hback × an

· dE
dpi ds
Pin
= Re
−2 jω
Pin
¨  ϵE⊥· Eback
⊥
+ µ0H∥· Hback
∥

ds

(20)
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 4 =====
JI et al.: EFFICIENT ADJOINT-BASED SHAPE OPTIMIZATION METHOD FOR INVERSE DESIGN
497
Fig. 2.
(a) Schematic of metallization layer with a thickness and infinitesi-
mally thin metallization layer. (b) Infinitesimally thin metallization layer with
r →0 and δz →0.
where the subscript ⊥represents field component in the normal
direction, and ∥represents field component in the tangential
direction. It is noted that the actual optimization parameters
in the shape derivative are the point displacements along the
metal-boundary unit normal. The positive direction of the unit
normal is demonstrated in Fig. 1.
Detailed derivation of (20) is reported in Appendix.
Equation (20) is usually suitable for metallic size optimization,
i.e., movement of metallic structural planes due to the surface
integral in the last term of (20). In addition, it should be noted
that sometimes it is necessary to deal with infinitesimally thin
metallization layers, where the metallic plane may collapse
into metallic lines, as shown in Fig. 2(a). Consider a metalliza-
tion layer as shown in Fig. 2(b), when r →0 the metallization
layer is infinitely thin, the origin surface integral transforms to
a sensitivity expression involving integration over the surface
of the half-cylinder [33]
dFoM
dpi
= Re
−2 jω
Pin
ˆ l
0
ˆ π
0
 ϵEz · Eback
z
+ µ0Hx · H back
x

rdsdl

(21)
where the subscript
z represents field component in the
z-direction, x represents field component in the x-direction,
and l represents the length of the edge. The sampling at the
edge of metallization layer is infeasible due to the singular.
However, sampling can be performed along a line parallel to
the respective edge and close to it inside the metal. Then (21)
can be derived as
dFoM
dpi
= Re
−jωδzπ
Pin
ˆ l
0
 ϵEz · Eback
z
+ µ0Hx · H back
x

dl

.
(22)
It can be seen that (22) corresponding to infinitesimally
thin metallization layers and (20) for metallization layers with
thickness only differ in terms of constant terms. However, the
constant terms are not critical in practical applications. There-
fore, as long as the correct field solutions can be provided, the
gradient calculation of the adjoint method is not much different
for infinitesimally thin metallization layers and metallization
layers with a certain thickness.
To apply (20) to shape optimization of microwave struc-
tures, further derivation is required to optimize each point on
the metallic boundary. The derivation of (20) in the context
of perturbation theory for roughness losses is detailed in [34],
[35]. Note the similarity of (20) to the variational equation of
ordinary calculus
δFoM =
X
i
∂FoM
∂pi
δpi
(23)
for a finite number of variables, a typical gradient-based
optimization algorithm would operate by setting
δpi = ∂FoM
∂pi
(24)
ensuring that to first order the objective function increased
every iteration. Exactly the same reasoning leads in our case
to the choice of
δpi = Re
−2 jω
Pin
 ϵE⊥,i · Eback
⊥,i + µ0H∥,i · Hback
∥,i

(25)
for all pi on the boundary surface. Thus, right-hand side
of (25) can be considered the infinite dimensional shape
derivative as illustrated in Fig. 1, and we have a procedure
for updating the shape with only one simulation.
C. Level Set Geometric Representation
For two-phase material microwave devices, the permittivity
and conductivity are known everywhere once the boundary is
specified. The level set methods provide a natural, flexible
representation for arbitrarily shaped boundaries in a larger
design space [36], [37]. For simplicity and clarity, we will take
a practical example (i.e., the example of the coupler shown
in Section III-A) to illustrate the process.
The level set function is expressed as φ[ p(t), t], where p(t)
is the set of points along the boundary. The boundary can be
deformed continuously through the artificial time parameter t
and t = 0 represents the initial boundary. Within the boundary
set is metal and outside the boundary set is air. Thus, the
boundary shape of the structure can be represented by a zero
level set
φ

p(t), t

= 0.
(26)
Taking the time derivative of (26) yields
∂φ
∂t + d p
dt · ∇φ = 0.
(27)
In general, the term d p/dt is a vector which is referred
to as the velocity, representing the speed at which a point
along the boundary is moving. Since only movement normal
to the boundary is relevant, movement along the boundary is
simply a reparametrization. Then (27) can be rewritten as a
Hamilton–Jacobi partial differential equation
∂φ
∂t + V |∇φ| = 0
(28)
where V is a scalar velocity field in the normal direction and
|∇φ| is the magnitude of the gradient of φ.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 5 =====
498
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 73, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
Fig. 3.
(a) Level set method for parameters’ updating in adjoint method.
(b) Schematic of the relationship between δpi calculated by adjoint method
and Vi in the level set method.
A certain increment of a parameter δpi which governs the
deformation of the level set function can be expressed as
δpi =
δφi
|∇φi| = −dpi
dt δt = −Viδt.
(29)
Combining (22), (25), and (29) yields
δFoM
= δt · Re
−2 jω
Pin
¨
V
 ϵE⊥· Eback
⊥
+ µ0H∥· Hback
∥

ds

.
(30)
The variation in a parameter is
pnew
i
= pi −δpi = pi −δφi
|∇φ| = pi + Viδt
(31)
where pnew
i
is the updated parameter and an updated structure
can be obtained after calculating each pnew
i
. The shape evo-
lution of coupler’s design region with the level set method is
shown in Fig. 3(a). As can be seen, with the change in time t,
the boundary p(t) also changes. The deformation calculated
by (25) is related to the velocity of boundary movement as
demonstrated in (31) and Fig. 3(b).
The optimization process for microwave components is
depicted in Fig. 4. Initially, the process commences with para-
metric modeling, where a parameter set is used to represent
the device under optimization. Subsequently, simulation is
conducted using commercial simulation software, with field
monitors set at the desired frequencies prior to simulation.
Upon completion of the simulation, the device’s performance
is assessed against the requirements, and if necessary, the
iterative process is initiated.
The iterative process involves an adjoint simulation, wherein
the position of the excitation source is adjusted to obtain the
backward field value as illustrated in Fig. 2. Using the field
solutions obtained from both forward and adjoint simulations,
along with the provided equations, the shape derivative is
calculated. With the derivative of the objective function cal-
culated, changes in geometry are introduced proportionally to
the derivative, using the gradient descent method. The shape
Fig. 4.
Flowchart of the developed optimization approach in this work.
is updated using the level set method. The shape derivative
calculated in the previous step as shown in Fig. 4 is used as
the velocity field in the level set algorithm, resulting in a new
shape for further simulation. Following the iterative process
described above, the device structure that meets the design
objectives is eventually obtained through repeated iterations.
III. VALIDATION AND DISCUSSION
To verify the validity of our developed approach, two types
of microwave components including a directional coupler and
an unequal Wilkinson power divider are designed according to
the process in Fig. 4, fabricated and experimentally measured
with respect to EM performance. The simulation software we
use during the optimization process is CST Studio Suite and
other EM software can also be used. Time-domain solver
is chosen to simulate. The boundary conditions of the two
devices on the x-axis, y-axis, and z-min are set as magnetic
boundary, and the z-max direction is set as electric boundary.
We have chosen the frequency point to be 5 GHz, so it is nec-
essary to add electric field monitor and magnetic field monitor
at 5 GHz both in the forward and adjoint simulations. The
metallic layers of the two devices used to verify our method
are not infinitely thin but have a thickness of 35 µm both
in simulations and prototypes. Except for the simulations, all
other optimization processes are completed using Python and
embedded VB code. All the above processes are performed on
a computer with a 16-GB RAM and an Intel Core i5-11400F
running at 2.6 GHz.
A. High-Directivity Directional Coupler
The initial structure of the directional coupler is shown
in Fig. 5, in which the coupling region within the red dashed
box is the design region. Port 1 is specified as the input port,
while ports 2, 3, and 4 are the through port, coupling port,
and isolation port, respectively. The performance of direc-
tional couplers is usually evaluated by two metrics: coupling
level (CL), which refers to the output at the coupling port,
and directivity, which represents the deference between the
coupling port and the isolation port. When CL increases,
directivity also improves. Therefore, the optimization objective
is set as CL and the objective function FoMCL is
maximize
FoMCL = S31.
(32)
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 6 =====
JI et al.: EFFICIENT ADJOINT-BASED SHAPE OPTIMIZATION METHOD FOR INVERSE DESIGN
499
Fig. 5.
Initial structure of the coupler.
Fig. 6.
Iterative optimization process of the coupler from the initial structure
to the structure after 29 iterations. (a) Shape evolution. (b) Electric field
distribution and the output of the coupling port and isolation port.
Given the actual situation, we have imposed limitations on
the optimization area, which means that the upper edge of
the coupling arm cannot exceed the through waveguide above,
and a minimum spacing of 0.1 mm has been set. The initial
geometry parameters are as follows, w = 1.6 mm, d = 12 mm,
and g = 1 mm.
The shape evolution and the corresponding E-field distribu-
tion at 5 GHz during the optimization process are presented
in Fig. 6. There is a visible shape change in the coupling
region between the initial structure and the optimized structure.
Fig. 7.
S-parameters’ evolution of coupler.
Fig. 8.
(a) Prototype of the optimized high-directivity directional coupler.
(b) Measured and simulated S-parameters of the optimized coupler.
More importantly, the E-field distribution on the coupled
waveguide is obviously enhanced, while weakened on the
isolation waveguide which means each iteration of the opti-
mization process gets better. The S-parameters’ evolution
at 5 GHz is presented in Fig. 7, which shows the entire opti-
mization process converges in less than ten simulations. The
output of the coupling port increases from −17.9 to −10 dB
and the directivity increased from 4.6 to 17.1 dB while
maintaining low insertion loss below −1 dB. The total time
of 20 iterations is about 55 min.
To verify the optimization results, a prototype of the
optimized high-directivity directional coupler was fabricated
using printed circuit board technology, in which 35-µm-thick
copper pattern was deposited on 30-mil-thick Rogers4350B
substrate as shown in Fig. 8(a). The conductivity of cop-
per is 5.8 × 107 S/m. The permittivity and loss tangent of
Rogers4350B are 3.66 and 0.0037, respectively. The prototype
is measured with Agilent vector network analyzer N5242A.
The simulated and measured results of the fabricated coupler
are plotted in Fig. 8(b). As can be observed, the four measured
S-parameter curves are in accordance with the simulated
results.
B. Unequal Wilkinson Power Divider
The second type of microwave structure used to verify our
approach is a Wilkinson power divider as shown in Fig. 9.
As illustrated by the red dotted box, the design region consists
of a λ/2 long input waveguide and two λ/4 long splitter
waveguides. The initial linewidth is w = 2 mm. The sub-
strate is 30-mil-thick Rogers3003 in which permittivity and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 7 =====
500
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 73, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
Fig. 9.
Initial structure of the unequal Wilkinson power divider.
Fig. 10.
Shape evolution of the unequal Wilkinson power divider during
the optimization process. (a) Shape evolution and the corresponding field
distribution from the initial structure to the structure after 40 iterations.
(b) Shape structure corresponding to the power ratio of 2, 3, 5, and 9 in
the optimization process.
loss tangent are 3 and 0.001, respectively. In the case of
constant power input in power dividers, when the output of
port 2 increases, the output of port 3 decreases accordingly.
Therefore, the optimization objective of the unequal Wilkinson
power divider is set to be the transmission coefficient (TC) of
port 2 to realize the change in power division ratio. Therefore,
the objective function FoMTC is
maximize
FoMTC = S21.
(33)
The shape evolution and the corresponding E-field dis-
tribution
during
the
optimization
process
are
presented
in Fig. 10(a). Similarly, there is an apparent change between
the initial structure and the final structure. The electric field
distribution on port 2 shows an obvious enhancement while
weakened on port 3. We enumerate the structural shapes
with power distribution ratios of 2, 3, 5, and 9, as shown
in Fig. 10(b). The deformation in the design area is larger
for the structure with large power division ratio. It should be
noted that to ensure the in-phase output of the two output
ports, constraints on the structure description are added so that
the microstrip lines are always connected. Fig. 11 illustrates
that the output of port 2 increases during the iteration process
as expected and the power divider can achieve an arbitrary
Fig. 11.
S-parameters’ evolution of the unequal Wilkinson power divider
during optimization.
Fig. 12.
Simulated results and measured results of the fabricated prototype.
(a) Unequal power divider 1. (b) Unequal power divider 2. (c) Results of
unequal power divider 1. (d) Results of unequal power divider 2.
TABLE I
COMPARISON WITH PUBLISHED UNEQUAL POWER DIVIDERS
ratio in a wide range. The total time of 50 iterations is
about 3 h 24 min.
As shown in Fig. 12, two power dividers with power ratio
of 1:5 and 1:9, respectively, were fabricated and measured.
As seen from Fig. 12(a) and (b), it seems that the structure
of the two power dividers is similar. Actually, as shown in
the partial enlarged drawing in Fig. 12(b), the microstrip line
leading to port 2 is wider while the microstrip line leading to
port 3 is narrower compared with Fig. 12(a). The comparison
between the simulated results and the measured results exhibits
good consistency, thereby demonstrating the validity of the
developed approach again.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 8 =====
JI et al.: EFFICIENT ADJOINT-BASED SHAPE OPTIMIZATION METHOD FOR INVERSE DESIGN
501
TABLE II
COMPARISON WITH PUBLISHED EM OPTIMIZATION METHOD
A comparison between our designed and optimized unequal
power divider and the recently reported related works is shown
in Table I. The most significant advantage of the power divider
optimized by our method is its ability to easily achieve designs
with arbitrary power ratios while also maintaining good per-
formance in miniaturization. Furthermore, compared with the
recently published work, our power divider structure does not
rely on meticulously crafted designs based on experience.
Instead, it requires only a simple initial structure, which is
then automatically optimized.
C. Comparison With Other Methods
As outlined in the introduction, various optimization
methods have been developed for EM component design,
encompassing stochastic optimizations, and gradient-based
optimizations. Here, we conduct a comparative analysis of our
proposed method with several widely used techniques in recent
years, as depicted in Table II. It is evident that while stochastic
methods possess the advantage of global optimization, they are
typically confined to size optimization with several parameters
and generally require more iterations or simulations compared
with gradient-based approaches. On the other hand, some
gradient-based size optimization, although offering relatively
less design freedom, necessitates fewer iterations, thereby
achieving quicker convergence. In addition, shape optimization
usually has more parameters compared with size optimization.
In our approach, to achieve accurate boundaries, the finer
the grid points are divided, the better the optimization effect
will be. However, too many points will reduce the speed of
calculations. Therefore, it is necessary to select an appropri-
ate number of parameters. Taking microstrip devices in the
frequency band of around 5 GHz as an example, based on
our experience, a point spacing of around 0.1 to 0.5 mm is
generally acceptable.
Due to efficient global gradient computation capability of
the adjoint method, it is often integrated with numerical
methods, using information such as system matrices or mesh
subdivision in numerical methods to achieve complex shape
optimization, as evidenced in [18], [19], and [49]. Adjoint
shape optimization independent of numerical methods is a
valuable issue and has been explored in the field of optical
devices, as discussed in [14], [15], [52], and [53].
In summary, our aim is to develop optimization methods
that provide greater design flexibility, require fewer iterations,
are user-friendly, and are applicable to microwave components.
The method presented in this article has demonstrated favor-
able outcomes in these aspects.
IV. CONCLUSION
An adjoint-based shape optimization approach for the
inverse design of microwave components has been presented.
The proposed approach integrates adjoint method into com-
mercial EM software, and gradient calculation and parameters’
updating are the two key procedures. Gradient calculation is
realized using rigorous analytical solution of shape derivative,
while parameters’ updating is achieved by geometric shape
parameterization using the level set method.
The above-mentioned techniques endow the developed
approach a few advantages. First, this approach only needs
field solutions and is independent of any specific numerical
method, serving as a pure postprocessing procedure com-
patible with various commercial Maxwell solvers. Second,
this approach can achieve shape optimization with arbitrarily
numerous DoF, while the reported approaches integrating
adjoint method into commercial EM packages can only deal
with several variables. Finally, the approach is highly efficient
so that it only takes dozens or even a few iterations to
accomplish optimization compared with other methods that
usually require over a hundred iterations.
To validate our approach, we have applied it to optimize a
directional coupler and an unequal power divider, followed by
experimental measurements. The measured results agree well
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 9 =====
502
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 73, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
with the optimized ones, thus demonstrating the validity and
robustness of our developed approach.
APPENDIX
PROOF OF THE DERIVATIVE OF THE OBJECTIVE FUNCTION
The derivative of FoM with respect to the design vari-
ables pi is
dFoM
dpi
= 2Re
˜  hback × an

· dE
dpi ds
Pin
.
(34)
The differentiation of two forward curl equations (12)
and (13) with respect to parameter pi produces
∇× dE
dpi
= −jω
 dµ
dpi
H + µdH
dpi

(35)
∇× dH
dpi
= jω
 dϵ
dpi
E + ϵ dE
dpi

(36)
and take the dot product of (35) with Had, of (36) with Ead
∇× dE
dpi
· Had = −jω
 dµ
dpi
H + µdH
dpi

· Had
(37)
∇× dH
dpi
· Ead = jω
 dϵ
dpi
E + ϵ dE
dpi

· Ead
(38)
while take the dot product of (15) with dH/dpi, and of (16)
with dE/dpi
∇× Ead · dH
dpi
= −jωµHad · dH
dpi
(39)
∇× Had · dE
dpi
= jωϵEad · dE
dpi
.
(40)
Add the four equations (37)–(40) and use the vector
identities
(∇× A) · B −(∇× B) · A = ∇· (A × B)
(41)
to yield
∇·

Ead × dH
dpi
+ Had × dE
dpi

= jω
 dµ
dpi
H

· Had −
 dϵ
dpi
E

· Ead

.
(42)
Integrating (42) and using divergence theorem to yield
¨ 
Ead × dH
dpi
+ Had × dE
dpi

ds
= jω
˚  dµ
dpi
H

· Had −
 dϵ
dpi
E

· Ead

dv.
(43)
By requiring the accompanying field to satisfy the same
boundary conditions as the original field, the surface integra-
tion term on the left side of (43) can be correlated with the
derivative of FoM [21]
¨ 
Ead × dH
dpi
+ Had × dE
dpi

ds = dFoM
dpi
.
(44)
The relationship between Ead and Eback is as follows [21],
[23], [54]:
Ead = −
 2Pin · Pback
in
−1Eback
(45)
where Pback
in
is the power of incident wave in backward
simulation.
Equation (45) indicates a linear relationship between the
adjoint field and the backward field. Therefore, the right side
of (44) can be made equal to the derivative of FoM of (34)
dFoM
dpi
= 4Re

jωPback
in
˚  dµ
dpi
H

· Had
−
 dϵ
dpi
E

· Ead

dv

= Re
−2 jω
Pin
×
˚  dµ
dpi
H

· Hback−
 dϵ
dpi
E

· Eback

dv

.
(46)
Equation (46) can be used in dielectric-based optical devices
but not metal-based microwave devices; the derivative of
permeability and permittivity have to be further derivation.
Since the metal and dielectric are not magnetic
dµ
dpi
= 0.
(47)
The relationship between permittivity and conductivity is
ϵ = ϵ0 −jσ
ω
(48)
then the derivative of the permittivity with respect to the
parameter pi is
dϵ
dpi
=

ϵ0(1 −ϵr) + σ
jω

.
(49)
Substitute (49) into (46)
dFoM
dpi
= Re
2 jω
Pin
¨
ϵ0(1 −ϵr)E · Ebackds

+ Re
2 jω
Pin
¨
σ
jωE · Ebackds

.
(50)
From the Lorentz reciprocity
∇(E1 × H2) = ∇(E2 × H1)
= −jω(ϵE1 · E2 + µH1 · H2).
(51)
Using the expressions for the field behavior near PEC
edges [23]
¨
(ϵE1 · E2 + µH1 · H2)ds = 0.
(52)
Substitute (48) into (52)
¨ 
ϵ0 −jσ
ω

E1 · E2 + µH1 · H2

ds = 0.
(53)
Simplify (53) and note that the tangential electric field and
normal magnetic field are zero based on the above assumed
PEC situation
¨ σE · Eback
jω
ds
= −
¨  ϵ0E⊥· Eback
⊥
+ µ0H∥· Hback
∥

ds
(54)
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 10 =====
JI et al.: EFFICIENT ADJOINT-BASED SHAPE OPTIMIZATION METHOD FOR INVERSE DESIGN
503
where E⊥means the normal component of electric field,
and H∥means the tangential component of magnetic field.
Note that the left side of (54) is part of (50). Substitute the
right side of (54) into (50)
dFoM
dpi
= Re
−2 jω
Pin
¨  ϵE⊥· Eback
⊥
+ µ0H∥· Hback
∥

ds

.
(55)
REFERENCES
[1] E. BouDaher and A. Hoorfar, “Electromagnetic optimization using
mixed-parameter and multiobjective covariance matrix adaptation evo-
lution strategy,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 63, no. 4,
pp. 1712–1724, Apr. 2015.
[2] A. Pietrenko-Dabrowska and S. Koziel, “Globalized parametric opti-
mization of microwave components by means of response features and
inverse metamodels,” Sci. Rep., vol. 11, no. 1, p. 23718, Dec. 2021.
[3] T. Haq and S. Koziel, “Inverse modeling and optimization of CSRR-
based microwave sensors for industrial applications,” IEEE Trans.
Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 70, no. 11, pp. 4796–4804, Nov. 2022.
[4] Y. Wu, L. Jiao, Z. Zhuang, and Y. Liu, “The art of power dividing:
A review for state-of-the-art planar power dividers,” China Commun.,
vol. 14, no. 5, pp. 1–16, May 2017.
[5] S. Koziel and A. Bekasiewicz, “Rapid simulation-driven multiobjective
design optimization of decomposable compact microwave passives,”
IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 64, no. 8, pp. 2454–2461,
Aug. 2016.
[6] A. Pietrenko-Dabrowska and S. Koziel, “Low-cost design optimization
of microwave passives using multifidelity EM simulations and selective
Broyden updates,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 70, no. 11,
pp. 4765–4771, Nov. 2022.
[7] I. Arnedo et al., “Passive microwave component design using inverse
scattering: Theory and applications,” Int. J. Antennas Propag., vol. 2013,
no. 1, pp. 1–10, 2013.
[8] S. Koziel, A. Pietrenko-Dabrowska, and P. Plotka, “On improved-
reliability design optimization of high-frequency structures using local
search algorithms,” IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 90586–90596, 2022.
[9] S. R. Rengarajan and J. J. Lynch, “Design of a traveling-wave slot array
power divider using the method of moments and a genetic algorithm,”
IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 63, no. 12, pp. 3981–3987,
Dec. 2015.
[10] A. Lalbakhsh, M. U. Afzal, and K. P. Esselle, “Multiobjective particle
swarm optimization to design a time-delay equalizer metasurface for an
electromagnetic band-gap resonator antenna,” IEEE Antennas Wireless
Propag. Lett., vol. 16, pp. 912–915, 2016.
[11] S.-R. Zhang, Y.-X. Zhang, and C.-Y. Cui, “Efficient multiobjective
optimization of time-modulated array using a hybrid particle swarm
algorithm with convex programming,” IEEE Antennas Wireless Propag.
Lett., vol. 19, pp. 1842–1846, 2020.
[12] F. Feng, J. Zhang, J. Jin, W. Na, S. Yan, and Q.-J. Zhang, “Efficient
FEM-based EM optimization technique using combined Lagrangian
method with Newton’s method,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Techn.,
vol. 68, no. 6, pp. 2194–2205, Jun. 2020.
[13] X. Li, F. Feng, J. Zhang, W. Zhang, and Q.-J. Zhang, “Advanced
simulation-inserted optimization using combined quasi-Newton method
with Lagrangian method for EM-based design optimization,” IEEE
Trans. Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 70, no. 8, pp. 3753–3764, Aug. 2022.
[14] S. Molesky, Z. Lin, A. Y. Piggott, W. Jin, J. Vuckovi´c, and
A. W. Rodriguez, “Inverse design in nanophotonics,” Nature Photon.,
vol. 12, no. 11, pp. 659–670, Nov. 2018.
[15] C. M. Lalau-Keraly, S. Bhargava, O. D. Miller, and E. Yablonovitch,
“Adjoint shape optimization applied to electromagnetic design,” Opt.
Exp., vol. 21, no. 18, pp. 21693–21701, 2013.
[16] E. M. Papoutsis-Kiachagias and K. C. Giannakoglou, “Continuous
adjoint methods for turbulent flows, applied to shape and topology
optimization: Industrial applications,” Arch. Comput. Methods Eng.,
vol. 23, no. 2, pp. 255–299, Jun. 2016.
[17] J. P. Heners, L. Radtke, M. Hinze, and A. Düster, “Adjoint shape
optimization for fluid–structure interaction of ducted flows,” Comput.
Mech., vol. 61, no. 3, pp. 259–276, Mar. 2018.
[18] J. Wang, X.-S. Yang, X. Ding, and B.-Z. Wang, “Antenna radiation
characteristics optimization by a hybrid topological method,” IEEE
Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 65, no. 6, pp. 2843–2854, Jun. 2017.
[19] J. Wang, X.-S. Yang, X. Ding, and B.-Z. Wang, “Topology optimization
of conical-beam antennas exploiting rotational symmetry,” IEEE Trans.
Antennas Propag., vol. 66, no. 5, pp. 2254–2261, May 2018.
[20] A. L. Paganotti, R. R. Saldanha, M. M. Afonso, and A. C. Lisboa, “Fast
sensitivity analysis of electric potential distribution of transmission lines
by using adjoint method,” IEEE Trans. Magn., vol. 58, no. 9, pp. 1–4,
Sep. 2022.
[21] N. K. Nikolova, X. Zhu, Y. Song, A. Hasib, and M. H. Bakr, “S-
parameter sensitivities for electromagnetic optimization based on volume
field solutions,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 57, no. 6,
pp. 1526–1538, Jun. 2009.
[22] Y. Zhang, N. K. Nikolova, and M. K. Meshram, “Design optimization
of planar structures using self-adjoint sensitivity analysis,” IEEE Trans.
Antennas Propag., vol. 60, no. 6, pp. 3060–3066, Jun. 2012.
[23] M. S. Dadash, N. K. Nikolova, and J. W. Bandler, “Analytical adjoint
sensitivity formula for the scattering parameters of metallic structures,”
IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 60, no. 9, pp. 2713–2722,
Sep. 2012.
[24] S. Koziel, S. Ogurtsov, J. W. Bandler, and Q. S. Cheng, “Reliable space-
mapping optimization integrated with EM-based adjoint sensitivities,”
IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 61, no. 10, pp. 3493–3502,
Oct. 2013.
[25] F. Feng, W. Na, W. Liu, S. Yan, L. Zhu, and Q. Zhang, “Paral-
lel gradient-based EM optimization for microwave components using
adjoint-sensitivity-based neuro-transfer function surrogate,” IEEE Trans.
Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 68, no. 9, pp. 3606–3620, Sep. 2020.
[26] F. Feng et al., “Feature and EM sensitivity co-assisted neuro-TF surro-
gate optimization for microwave filter design,” IEEE Trans. Microw.
Theory Techn., vol. 71, no. 11, pp. 4749–4761, Nov. 2023, doi:
10.1109/TMTT.2023.3275232.
[27] Ansys
HFSS.
[Online].
Available:
https://www.ansys.com/products/
electronics/ansys-hfss
[28] Simulia CST Studio Suite. [Online]. Available: https://www.3ds.com/
products-services/simulia/products/cst-studio-suite/
[29] Altair FEKO. [Online]. Available: https://altair.com/feko/
[30] L. Su, D. Vercruysse, J. Skarda, N. V. Sapra, J. A. Petykiewicz,
and J. Vuˇckovi´c, “Nanophotonic inverse design with SPINS: Software
architecture and practical considerations,” Appl. Phys. Rev., vol. 7, no. 1,
Mar. 2020, Art. no. 011407.
[31] J.
Vuckovic
et
al.,
“Inverse
design
software
for
nanophotonic
structuresspins,”
Stanford
Univ.,
Redwood
City,
CA,
USA,
Tech. Rep. S18-012, 2018.
[32] Lumerical
FDTD
Solutions.
[Online].
Available:
https://www.
lumerical.com
[33] M. S. Dadash, N. K. Nikolova, and J. W. Bandler, “Analytical response
sensitivities of infinitesimally thin metallic shapes,” in Proc. Eur.
Microw. Conf., Oct. 2013, pp. 1111–1114.
[34] S. G. Johnson, M. Ibanescu, M. A. Skorobogatiy, O. Weisberg,
J. D. Joannopoulos, and Y. Fink, “Perturbation theory for Maxwell’s
equations with shifting material boundaries,” Phys. Rev. E, Stat. Phys.
Plasmas Fluids Relat. Interdiscip. Top., vol. 65, no. 6, Jun. 2002,
Art. no. 066611.
[35] S. G. Johnson, M. L. Povinelli, M. Soljaˇci´c, A. Karalis, S. Jacobs, and
J. D. Joannopoulos, “Roughness losses and volume-current methods
in photonic-crystal waveguides,” Appl. Phys. B, Lasers Opt., vol. 81,
nos. 2–3, pp. 283–293, Jul. 2005.
[36] S. Osher and J. A. Sethian, “Fronts propagating with curvature-
dependent speed: Algorithms based on hamilton-jacobi formulations,”
J. Comput. Phys., vol. 79, no. 1, pp. 12–49, 1988.
[37] O. D. Miller, Photonic Design: From Fundamental Solar Cell Physics
to Computational Inverse Design. Berkeley, CA, USA: Univ. California,
Berkeley, 2012.
[38] Z.-X. Du, X. Y. Zhang, K.-X. Wang, H.-L. Kao, X.-L. Zhao, and
X. H. Li, “Unequal Wilkinson power divider with reduced arm length
for size miniaturization,” IEEE Trans. Compon., Packag., Manuf. Tech-
nol., vol. 6, no. 2, pp. 282–289, Feb. 2016.
[39] D. Wu, A. Serban, M. Karlsson, and S. Gong, “Highly unequal three-port
power divider: Theory and implementation,” Int. J. Antennas Propag.,
vol. 2018, pp. 1–8, Jul. 2018.
[40] S. Saleh et al., “Nonuniform compact ultra-wide band Wilkinson power
divider with different unequal split ratios,” J. Electromagn. Waves Appl.,
vol. 34, no. 2, pp. 154–167, Jan. 2020.
[41] D. Wang, X. Guo, and W. Wu, “Wideband unequal power divider
with enhanced power dividing ratio, fully matching bandwidth, and
filtering performance,” IEEE Trans. Microw. Theory Techn., vol. 70,
no. 6, pp. 3200–3212, Jun. 2022.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

===== PAGE 11 =====
504
IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON MICROWAVE THEORY AND TECHNIQUES, VOL. 73, NO. 1, JANUARY 2025
[42] Z. Sun, X. Wang, L. Zhu, and G. Lu, “A synthesis method
for
N-section
unequal
ultra-wideband
Wilkinson
power
divider
with controllable equal-ripple performance,” IEEE Access, vol. 11,
pp. 59250–59262, 2023.
[43] N. Zhang, X. Wang, L. Zhu, and G. Lu, “A novel unequal power divider
with general isolation topology: Design and verification,” IEEE Microw.
Wireless Technol. Lett., vol. 33, no. 1, pp. 19–22, Jan. 2023.
[44] X. Li and K. M. Luk, “The grey wolf optimizer and its applications
in electromagnetics,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 68, no. 3,
pp. 2186–2197, Mar. 2020.
[45] K. Fu, X. Cai, B. Yuan, Y. Yang, and X. Yao, “An efficient surrogate
assisted particle swarm optimization for antenna synthesis,” IEEE Trans.
Antennas Propag., vol. 70, no. 7, pp. 4977–4984, Jul. 2022.
[46] A. Papathanasopoulos, P. A. Apostolopoulos, and Y. Rahmat-Samii,
“Optimization assisted by neural network-based machine learning in
electromagnetic applications,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 72,
no. 1, pp. 160–173, Apr. 2023.
[47] S. Koziel, A. Pietrenko-Dabrowska, and P. Plotka, “Design specification
management with automated decision-making for reliable optimization
of miniaturized microwave components,” Sci. Rep., vol. 12, no. 1, p. 829,
Jan. 2022.
[48] A. Pietrenko-Dabrowska, S. Koziel, and A. G. Raef, “Reduced-cost
optimization-based miniaturization of microwave passives by multi-
resolution EM simulations for Internet of Things and space-limited
applications,” Electronics, vol. 11, no. 24, p. 4094, Dec. 2022.
[49] S.-H. Zhu, X.-S. Yang, J. Wang, and B.-Z. Wang, “Design of MIMO
antenna isolation structure based on a hybrid topology optimization
method,” IEEE Trans. Antennas Propag., vol. 67, no. 10, pp. 6298–6307,
Oct. 2019.
[50] A. Iguchi, Y. Tsuji, T. Yasui, and K. Hirayama, “Efficient shape and
topology optimization based on sensitivity analysis for optical waveguide
devices utilizing full-vectorial BPM,” J. Lightw. Technol., vol. 38, no. 8,
pp. 2328–2335, Apr. 15, 2020.
[51] E. Garza and C. Sideris, “Fast inverse design of 3D nanophotonic devices
using boundary integral methods,” ACS Photon., vol. 10, pp. 824–835,
Oct. 2022.
[52] P. Sun, T. Van Vaerenbergh, S. Hooten, and R. Beausoleil, “Adjoint opti-
mization of polarization-splitting grating couplers,” Opt. Exp., vol. 31,
no. 3, p. 4884, 2023.
[53] A. Michaels, M. C. Wu, and E. Yablonovitch, “Hierarchical design
and optimization of silicon photonics,” IEEE J. Sel. Topics Quantum
Electron., vol. 26, no. 2, pp. 1–12, Mar. 2020.
[54] J.-M. Jin, The Finite Element Method in Electromagnetics. Hoboken,
NJ, USA: Wiley, 2015.
Shengwei Ji received B.S. degree from Qingdao University, Qingdao, China,
in 2018, and the M.S. degree from Hefei University of Technology, Hefei,
China, in 2021. He is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree at Shandong
University, Qingdao.
His research interests include electromagnetic inverse problem, microwave
structure optimization, and metasurface design.
Siteng HuYan received the B.S. and M.S. degrees from Shandong University,
Qingdao, China, in 2020 and 2023, respectively, where he is currently pursuing
the Ph.D. degree.
His research interests include electromagnetic inverse problem, antenna
test, and space electromagnetic field analysis.
Liuge Du received the B.S., M.S., and Ph.D. degrees in radio physics from
Shandong University, Qingdao, China, in 2005, 2008, and 2011, respectively.
Currently, he is working as a Professor with the School of Information
Science and Engineering, Shandong University. His research interests include
theory and method of computational electromagnetics and simulation of
semiconductor devices. He is also engaged in research on modeling and design
of silicon photonics.
Xiao Xu received the B.S. degree in electronic science and technology from
the University of Electronic Science and Technology of China, Chengdu,
China, in 2014, and the Ph.D. degree in electric science and technology from
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China, in 2019.
She is working as an Associate Professor with the School of Information
Science and Engineering, Shandong University, Qingdao, China. Her research
interests include silicon and polymer photonic devices and short-reach optical
interconnects.
Jia Zhao received the B.S. and the Ph.D. degrees from Shandong University,
Qingdao, China, in 2006 and 2011, respectively.
He is currently working as a Professor with the School of Information
Science and Engineering, Shandong University. His research interests include
nanophotonics and chip-scale optical interconnection.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Eastern Institute of Technology Ningbo. Downloaded on August 06,2026 at 06:37:29 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 
